# synchSalmon
## Analyses to explore drivers and consequences of component variability and synchrony using a combination of retrospective analyses and closed-loop simulations

-----

*Authors: C. Freshwater*

*Date: **ONGOING*

*Contact: cameron.freshwater@dfo-mpo.gc.ca*

-----

### Summary
The `synchSalmon` repository contains the data and models necessary to complete the analysis within *MANUSCRIPT TITLE*. The goal of this study was two-fold. First, we conducted a retrospective analysis using time series of stock recruitment data from the Fraser River sockeye salmon stock aggregate to quantify changes in component variability (mean temporal coefficient of variation within a stock) and synchrony (covariance among stocks). Second, we used a closed-loop simulation model to evaluate how different levels of component variability and synchrony influence the probability of achieving a suite of management objectives. The closed-loop simulation model was developed to address generic questions related to rebuilding and is contained within a separate package `samSim`. 

A summary of relevant files is provided below. Most functions are provided in `samSim` and contain relatively detailed documentation (and sometimes functioning examples). Details on how to run a simulation are provided in exampleSimRun.Rmd in the `samSim` package's repository under Rmd directory. Details on the operating model (biological dynamics and fishery interactions) and the management procedures (harvest control rule and assessment process) will be provided in the `samSim` vignette at a future date.

*Note:* development of `samSim` is ongoing and current package versions may no longer be directly compatible with the code provided here. Use the version number (Git release?) associated with the published paper to guarantee compatibility. 

-----

### Files
The repository contains the following directories:

#### data
Includes subdirectory:
- *sox* - contains stock-recruitment data necessary to complete retrospective analysis as well input .csv files used as inputs to the `recoverySim()` function

#### figs
Contains figures (main text and supplementary) included in *MANUSCRIPT TITLE*.

#### outputs
Includes subdirectories:
- *diagnostics* - Automatically generated by `recoverySim()` and used to store diagnostic plots representing the outputs from single trials.
- *generatedData* - Used to store data files generated in post-analysis scripts.
- *simData* - Automatically generated by `recoverySim()` and contains output from simulation runs. Each directory within simData represents a series of related scenarios, in this case each represents a given component variability and productivity operating model with multiple synchrony operating models nested inside.

#### scripts
Contains R scripts necessary to conduct retrospective and forward simulation analyses. Focal scripts are listed below, remainder are helper functions necessary to run Stan or TMB models.
- *runModelRobustOM_synch.R* - Runs forward simulation and generates majority of figures contained in manuscript.
- *runModelRobustOM_synchSensitivity.R* - Runs forward simulation sensitivity analyses and generates relevant figures.
- *skewedModels.R* - Fits skewed and heavy-tailed versions of Ricker/Larkin stock recruit models to Fraser sockeye data.
- *supplementalFigures.R* - Generates supplemental figures showing relevant probability distributions and an example of total allowable mortality harvest control rule.
- *synchRetroAnalysis.R* - Cleans stock-recruit data to pass to synchronyRetro-window-tmb.R and generates retrospective figures.
- *synchRetroAnalysis_suppShortTS.R* - Cleans stock-recruit data to pass to synchronyRetro-window-tmb.R and generates retrospective figures for retrospective sensitivity analysis.
- *synchronyRetro-window-tmb.R* - Estimates component variability, synchrony, and aggregate variability (with uncertainty) using a moving window.